Storm
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
"Windstorm" redirects here. For other uses, see Windstorm (disambiguation).
For other uses, see Storm (disambiguation).

A shelf cloud, associated with a heavy or severe thunderstorm, over Swedish island of Öland in the Baltic Sea in July 2005.
Part of a series on
Weather
Global tropical cyclone tracks-edit2.jpg
Temperate and polar seasons
Tropical seasons
Storms
Precipitation
Topics
Glossaries
Cumulus clouds in fair weather.jpeg Weather portal
vte
A storm is any disturbed state of an environment or in an astronomical body's atmosphere especially affecting its surface, and strongly implying severe weather. It may be marked by significant disruptions to normal conditions such as strong wind, tornadoes, hail, thunder and lightning (a thunderstorm), heavy precipitation (snowstorm, rainstorm), heavy freezing rain (ice storm), strong winds (tropical cyclone, windstorm), or wind transporting some substance through the atmosphere as in a dust storm, blizzard, sandstorm, etc.

Storms have the potential to harm lives and property via storm surge, heavy rain or snow causing flooding or road impassibility, lightning, wildfires, and vertical wind shear. Systems with significant rainfall and duration help alleviate drought in places they move through. Heavy snowfall can allow special recreational activities to take place which would not be possible otherwise, such as skiing and snowmobiling.


Desert storms are often accompanied by violent winds, and pass rapidly.[1]
The English word comes from Proto-Germanic *sturmaz meaning "noise, tumult".[2]


Lightning storm, Port-la-Nouvelle.
Storms are created when a center of low pressure develops with the system of high pressure surrounding it. This combination of opposing forces can create winds and result in the formation of storm clouds such as cumulonimbus. Small localized areas of low pressure can form from hot air rising off hot ground, resulting in smaller disturbances such as dust devils and whirlwinds.